# PID Controller Project

## Objective: 

The goal of the project is to drive the vehicle successfully around the track in the simulator using PID controller method to calculate the steering. 

## How to run:

This project involves the Term 2 Simulator which can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases)

This repository includes two files that can be used to set up and install uWebSocketIO for either Linux or Mac systems. For windows you can use either Docker, VMware, or even Windows 10 Bash on Ubuntu to install uWebSocketIO.

Once the install for uWebSocketIO is complete, the main program can be built and ran by doing the following from the project top directory.

	mkdir build
	cd build
	cmake ..
	make
	./pid

## Dependencies 

- cmake >= 3.5
- All OSes: click here for installation instructions
- make >= 4.1
-- Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
-- Mac: install Xcode command line tools to get make
-- Windows: Click here for installation instructions
- gcc/g++ >= 5.4
-- Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
-- Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
-- Windows: recommend using MinGW
- uWebSockets == 0.13, but the master branch will probably work just fine
-- Follow the instructions in the uWebSockets README to get setup for your platform. You can download the zip of the appropriate version from the releases page. Here's a link to the v0.13 zip.
-- If you run OSX and have homebrew installed you can just run the ./install-mac.sh script to install this
- Simulator. You can download these from the project intro page in the classroom.
	
## Directory Structure 
The directory structure of this repository is as follows:

```
root
|   CMakeLists.txt
|   cmakepatch.txt
|   README.md
|   *.sh
|
|___videos
|   |
|   |  pid_short.gif
|
|
|___src
    |   main.cpp
    |   PID.h
    |   PID.cpp
    |   json.hpp
```

## Proportional Integral Derivative (PID) Control 

#### P (Proportional):
- The P error term is proportional to cross-track error (CTE) and determines the speed of the control system response. 
	
- Increasing the proportional weight (Kp) increases the speed of the system response and enables the vehicle to make better sharp turns. However, if the proportional weight (Kp) is too large, the vehicle will begin to oscillate around the target trajectory. 

- If Kp is increased further, the oscillations (overshooting of target trajectory) will become larger and the vehicle behavior will become unstable and it may even leave the track. 

- The using P term alone does not allow to drive through turns on the track because the vehicle leads to overshoot the target trajectory too with unstable behavior at the end.

#### I (Integral):
- The I error term is proportional to both the magnitude of the CTE and is defined by weight Ki. 
- The integral term I accelerate the movement of the process towards target trajectory and eliminates the residual steady-state error as a bias between target trajectory and vehicle trajectory, that occurs with a pure proportional controller. 
- The bias can be generated by wind or systematic error in the steering system.

#### D (Derivative):

- The D error term is proportional to the rate of change of the CTE.
- The adding of derivative term, defined by weight Kd, increases the stable behavior of the vehicle by damping the oscillation of vehicle, the overshooting of target trajectory - by increasing the speed of the overall control system response. So, adding the D-term allows the vehicle to drive through turns on the track and increasing of weight Kd allows driving through turns faster. 
- On the other hand, increasing of weight Kd increases the sensitivity of control system to higher-frequency noise components but it is not actual in the current project.

## Discussions 

In this project Kp, Ki, and Kd values are constant and due to these value not being optimal in the simulator the car makes sharp steerings. As an improvement, Twiddle approach can be implemented for Kp,Ki, Kd, and speed parameter optimizations. 